# Mathematical Modeling Ca2+ Dynamics of Dyadic Space using Random walks
Project from D. Sato, Ph.D Lab (https://dsatolab.github.io/Site/). Studying calcium dynamics in the dyadic space using random walks, a stochastic process underlying diffusion. Mathematical modeling. Currently open in projects tab under "__Modeling Calcium Dynamics in the Dyadic Space using Random Walks__".

## Project Description
Calcium (Ca2+) sparks play an important role in regulating the uniform contraction and relaxation of cardiac myocytes. Ca2+ sparks occur due to a positive feedback process known as Ca2+ induced Ca2+ release. Tens to hundreds of ryanodine receptors (RyRs) form a cluster within the dyadic space between the cell membrane and the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) membrane. Often, Ca2+ diffusion is modeled by using a partial differential equation. However, since the dyadic space is extremely small and cytosolic Ca2+ concentration is relatively low during diastole, the continuum assumption may not provide a sufficiently accurate basis for describing Ca2+leaks and sparks. In this study, we used random walks, which are the fundamental processes that underlie diffusion, to model Ca2+ dynamics within the dyadic space. We began by modeling a single RyR. We found that the opening rate of the single RyR obeys the function k[Ca2+]2 for some constant k without its actual embedding in our model. Afterwards, by using that single RyR model, we modeled a single Ca2+ release unit (CRU, RyR cluster) and then, multiple CRUs. The model of the single CRU shows the transition from non-spark leaks to Ca2+ sparks as SR Ca2+ load becomes high. We also observed Ca2+ spark wave propagations when the spacing between Ca2+ release units is small and SR Ca2+ load is high. These results are consistent with experimental observations. Our study provides a more detailed mathematical description of intracellular Ca2+ cycling in order to improve our understanding of the dynamics involving Ca2+ leaks, Ca2+waves, delayed after depolarizations, and triggered activities.

## Scripts
Relevant scripts relating to this project. Most are in Matlab/Octave and C++

## Results
Relevant images and videos regarding Calcium sparks and waves. Includes poster presented at 62nd Biophysical Society Conference.
